and finally last thing here good welcome
to this live mock test actually we're
going to focus on IELTS listening
usually we focus on IELTS reading on a
Thursday night but I wanted to do
something different and focus on
listening so this is going to be the
first of a probably four part series
we're going to do a mini mock test I'm
going to break down every question type
their ears for IELTS listening and we're
going to look at them in detail and I'm
going to teach you a method to master
each of those question types for IELTS
listening so let's get started so first
of all just a little bit of information
about the different the four different
parts of IELTS listening so there are
four types of audio part one is two
speakers talking about an everyday
situation it's going to be quite easy
like booking a flight for example part
two is one speaker talking about an
everyday situation perhaps describing an
art gallery or something like that part
three it starts to get much more
challenging because there will be two to
four speakers and it will be set in an
educational context such as a university
or training center or something like
that part four is the most challenging
it's one speaker and it's usually a
university lecture what are the
different question types in IELTS
listening well there are six question
types multiple choice
matching plan map diagram labeling form
note table flowcharts summary completion
sentence completion and short answer in
this live mock test what are we going to
do we're going to focus on these two
multiple choice and matching this one is
particularly tricky so we're going to
take a close look at that one multiple
choice is a bit more straightforward but
nevertheless there are some things you
need to pay attention to what does
multiple choice look like in your IELTS
listening exam it looks like this that's
what you're going to see
II on your test paper okay so what how
do we break this down how do we do this
to make sure we're getting the right
answer each time well we need a method
we need a way to do this a step by step
process to do it and it goes something
like this not something like this
actually it goes like this this is the
method first thing you do is read the
instruction why because they vary
slightly
sometimes the instruction says choose
the correct letter a B or C sometimes it
will have four answer options sometimes
it will say choose the best two answers
so you need to pay attention to this
because it will vary from question to
question exam to exam cool that's pretty
straightforward second thing you need to
do is understand the prompt and I say
this because you the audio you have no
control over the audio in IELTS reading
you control when you read in IELTS
listening you don't control anything you
sit there and you are subject to the
audio and so you have to move very
quickly before the audio starts playing
so what you have to do is you get that
exam paper and you look you have to know
where to look what to do before that
audio starts to play you need to
understand the question prompt and you
need to understand the key words like
type insurance and a little trick that
you can do is instead of memorizing type
of insurance chosen type of insurance
chosen you can just say something like
insurance type insurance type insurance
type you can rearrange then when you
start to listen you know what you're
listening for you should also glance at
the answer options for example here in
insurance type there are three economy
standard and premium so you glance that
there is answer options before the audio
begins to play fine then the audio
begins to play so this is what I'm going
to do I want you to look at the
take a look at this what I'm going to do
is I'm going to play you the audio I
want you to read and listen and I'm
going to show you Clues I'm going to
show you distractors and I'm going to
show you synonyms for the answer so
listen carefully and read along and then
we'll select the right answer okay right
now obviously insurance is an important
thing to consider and our companies are
able to offer very good rates in a
number of different all-inclusive
packages but sorry could you explain a
bit more yes sorry um there's really
three rates according to quality of
insurance cover
there's the highest comprehensive cover
which is premium rate then there's
standard rate and then there's economy
rate that one will only cover the cost
of the contents secondhand oh I've been
stung before with economy insurance sir
I'll go for the highest mm-hmm and can I
just check would you want home delivery
or to allow us realize that the audio is
slightly different I'm going to read
this final one he says oh I've been
stung before with economy so I won't go
for that one standard sounds good but
the items are very valuable so we'll go
for the highest please choose number one
a B or C type it into the chat if you're
on YouTube type it into the comments
below good good good
good well done come let's have a look at
this transcript because the transcript
is very important because all IELTS
audios follow a similar pattern
they all have distractors clues and
synonyms so let's have a look at those
distractors and those clues so here's a
clue she says yes sorry umm there's
really three rates okay three rates you
know that you're here you know that
you're about to hear the answer
according to quality of insurance cover
she says there's the highest
comprehensive cover premium rate she's
talking about this one first then
there's standard rate then there's
economy rate that moment only cover the
cost of the content secondhand he says
oh I've been stunned before with economy
you could be fooled into then choosing a
he-said economy must be a you select a
and you think job done
no the IELTS is a tricky test it's there
to trick you don't be fooled by
something like that keep listening so I
won't go with that one then he says
standard sounds good and you think to
yourself
fantastic got it it's be standard sounds
good you tick B but you've been tricked
because the IELTS is tricky finally he
says but the items are very valuable so
I'll go for the highest I'll go for is
another way of saying I'll take the
highest economy
it's a distractor i've been studing
before with economy I won't go with that
one so we eliminate it
standard sounds good it's a distractor
but the items are very valuable so we
eliminate that one so the items are very
valuable so I'll go for the highest
premium that's the last part of the
method you choose your answer and the
answer is C cool on your question I'm
sorry on your answer sheet you
then next to number one write the letter
C that's how the answer sheet works just
going to check the chat because it's
flashing good good good good good well
done everybody got it multiple choice is
dead simple though the next one we're
going to look at called matching is not
this one is really quite tricky so let's
look at a method for how to complete
this one successfully this is what it
looks like on test day this is what
you'll see on your paper just spend a
few seconds looking at this because it's
extremely confusing I've taken the aisle
so I took the IELTS academic and I can
tell you that questions like this on
test day when you're under pressure if
you don't understand what to do if you
don't have a step-by-step process to
answering it the pressure of the exam
day etc sometimes your mind just goes
blank and you look at this and you think
what am I supposed to do so let's have a
closer look at it we need a method the
method is this the first thing you need
to do is connect this question prompt
this question prompt you need to connect
this question prompt to here to the
numbered list so forget a B and C forget
this don't look at this what does Jack
tell his tutor about and you move down
here to media studies so it's like this
what does Jack tell his tutor about
Media Studies what does Jack tell his
tutor about women and power what does
Jack tell ease tutor about culture and
society identity in popular culture
introduction to cultural theory if you
look at the question in this way it
makes it understandable you think okay I
get it so that's good that's the first
step second step is we move from what
does he tell his tutor about Media
Studies
to the possible answer options so what
does Jack tell his tutor about media
studies he'll definitely do it he may or
may not do it or he won't do it
fine so if we broke the question down
into a simpler way it should look like
this what does Jack tell his tutor about
Media Studies he'll definitely do it he
may or may not do it or he won't do it
so this is the first thing you have to
do when you get a matching question on
test day is to think about it
differently see it differently so you
can understand what it's asking you to
do so let's now have a listen then we'll
go through and do it one by one you will
hear a communication studies student
talking to his tutor about optional
courses for the next semester come in oh
hello Jack have a seat right you said
you wanted to see me to talk about your
options next semester that's right
we have to decide by the end of next
week really I'd like to do all five
options but we have to choose too don't
we yes but the choice depends on your
major to some extent you're majoring in
communication studies aren't you that's
right so for example the Media Studies
option will cover quite a lot of the
same area you did in the core module on
mass communications this semester the
development of the media through the
last two centuries in relation to
political and social issues mmm well
that was interesting
but I've decided I'd rather do something
completely new there's a Women's Studies
option isn't there yes women and power
again it has a historical focus it aims
to contextualize women's studies by
looking at the legal and social
situation in the 19th and early 20th
centuries so it would be useful if I
intended to specialize in women's
studies
I'm not sure I do actually well it might
still be useful to give you an idea of
the issues involved it's taught by dr.
steed oh really
I'll sign up for that then hmm what
about the option on culture and society
that addresses the historical debate on
the place of culture since the
Industrial Revolution in Britain so a
historical focus again do I get the
message you're not so keen on history
well it's just that we seem to have done
quite a lot this semester anyway I'll
think about that one if you're
interested in a course focusing on
current issues there's the option on
identity and popular culture that
approaches the subject through things
like contemporary film adverts soap
operas and so on hmm that sounds
interesting can you tell me who runs it
well it's normally dr. Stephens but he's
on sabbatical next semester
so I'm not sure who will be running it
it should be decided by next week though
right well I might wait until then to
decide and the last option is
introduction to cultural theory isn't it
I'm quite interested in that too I was
talking to one of the second-year
students and she said it was really
useful it made a lot of things fall into
place yes but in fact in your major
you'll have covered a lot of that
already in communications 102 so that
might be less useful than some of the
others oh I'll forget about that one
then mmm now while you're here we could
also discuss how you're getting on with
your core module assignment fine you've
just listened to that do put your
answers in I'm just curious we're going
to go through them in more detail I'm
going to again talk to you about
distractors about clues and about
synonyms because as I said the IELTS is
extremely tricky you think you're
probably getting the answer and it may
then quickly change to another answer
you need to listen particularly
carefully cool all right so just write
down your answers if you're on YouTube
don't forget to click thumbs up click
like if you're enjoying this video and
leave a comment
- please please please right so let's
think about this so what does jack tell
his tutor about Media Studies he'll
definitely do it may or may not do it or
he won't do it this is the question now
we need to look at the transcript so dr.
ray the woman says the media studies
options so you know you know you're at
the top of that list
sorry down the bottom you know you're at
the top of that list of all the course
options and it's in sequence so it's
going to be media studies first then the
next one then the next one it's not
mixed up which is good it helps us so we
start with media studies okay so he's
talking she's talking about that then
Jack says mmm well that was interesting
that was interesting not is interesting
that was interesting but I've decided
I'd rather do something completely new
it was interesting but I've decided I'd
rather do something completely new a B
or C again he doesn't say explicitly it
I won't do it he's not going to use
those words he's going to use other
words that mean the same thing so I'm
whatever he said I just forgot let's go
back and have a quick look he said I'd
rather do something completely new the
answer there is C he won't do it he's
adamant he's not going to do that if you
had number two C correct well done let's
have a think about this one what does
Jack tell his tutor about women and
power he'll definitely do it he may or
may not do it or he won't do it well
let's look at the transcript here he
mentions the subject so you know he's
moved from media studies to women
studies there's a women's studies option
isn't there yes women in power again
blah blah blah jack says so would be
useful if I intended to specialize in
women's studies but I'm not sure I do
actually anything
yourself okay it's going to be be he may
or may not do it but keep listening
because that was just a distractor let's
keep listening dr. Ravin says well it
might still be useful to give you an
idea of the issues involved it's taught
by dr. steed Jack says oh really
I'll sign up for that then I'll sign up
for that then what does he tell his
tutor about women and power a B or C I
only see 14 likes on YouTube please I'd
like to see more than that what does he
say he'll definitely do it
oh I'll sign up for that then oh I'll
sign up for that then a he'll definitely
do it cool what about number four what
does Jack tell his tutor about culture
and society he'll definitely do it he
may or may not do it or he won't do it
let's have a look at the transcript the
transcript looks like this jack says
what about the option on culture and
society so you know where you are
dr. races that addresses the blah blah
blah blah blah blah blah blah blah Jack
says in a tone of voice so a historical
focus again dr. a says do I get the
message you're not so keen on history
Jack says well it's just we seem to have
done quite a lot this semester anyway
I'll think about that one a B or C I'll
think about it
I'll think about that one cool the
answer there of course is B I'll have a
think about it he may or may not do it
he's not definitely going to do it and
he's not definitely not going to do it
well that didn't make sense he might do
it he'll definitely do it he might do it
or he won't do it so we've gone for B
for B cool now I'm going to give you
back to that crazy test paper and you
need to start to think
through it okay remember this is what it
looks like on test day it's not as
simple as the one that I showed you so
let's listen I want you to listen for
number five and number six remember that
you're going for what does Jack tell his
tutor about identity in public culture
then you go up to a B or C what does
Jack tell his tutor about the
introduction to cultural theory a B or C
let me disappear and let me play you
this audio it's going to start from
number five so listen carefully if
you're interested in a course focusing
on current issues there is the option on
identity and popular culture that
approaches the subject through things
like contemporary film adverts soap
operas and so on hmm that sounds
interesting can you tell me who runs it
well it's normally dr. Stevens but he's
on sabbatical next semester so I'm not
sure who will be running it it should be
decided by next week though right well I
might wait until then to decide and the
last option is introduction to cultural
theory isn't it I'm quite interested in
that too I was talking to one of the
second-year students and she said it was
really useful it made a lot of things
fall into place
yes but in fact in your major you'll
have covered a lot of that already in
communications 102 so that might be less
useful than some of the others uh I'll
forget about that one then mmm
now while you're here we could also
discuss how you're getting on with your
core module assignment all right so what
have you got what have you got for me
number five and number six cool number
six was pretty clear I believe he said
I'll forget about that one then maybe LC
B he started out seeming very interested
but then when she told him there would
be a new professor
he sort of changed his mind a little bit
again there was the distractor he
sounded like it was going to he was
definitely going to do it but then
something happened and then he changed
his mind
cool bananas let's have a look so what
does Jack tell his tutor about identity
in popular culture he says he may or may
not do it in other words and what does
Jack tell his tutor about introduction
to cultural theory he won't do it why
because it clashes with his major at the
beginning and sounded like he was he was
definitely going to do it but then he
said oh I'll forget about that one then
he won't do it
cool so on your answer sheet you should
have this one see that was from the
multiple choice 2c 3a 4b 5b and 6c if
you got all of those correct please put
a smiley face into the chat and click
like on YouTube please who got all of
those corrects yeah nice nice nice good
good good good good goo so when we break
down questions like that it makes it
much much easier in other words there is
a method to all of the madness of IELTS
one of the reasons why people don't get
the band scores they need is simply
because the IELTS questions are so
confusing and they're so tricky but if
you start to understand the tricks that
IELTS plays then you can also well
you're not tricky you're just smart okay
cool
so what does it take for IELTS success
there are three thing I reckon there are
three things you need methods you need
strategies for each of the test sections
you need ways to answer all the
different question types
you also need good quality practice
materials you have to be careful with
what you use because to write an IELTS
mock test to a high degree it's very
very difficult to do the last thing you
need is feedback for speed
and raining especially in other words
you need effective methods good practice
materials and expert feedback they are
the three keys to your success I believe
and that's exactly what we do at e to
language comm so if you need help with
your IELTS do go to WWE - language comm
you can sign up for free or you can go
straight through and become a paid
member in the meantime I'm going to
answer some Q&A so if you have a
question please type it into the chat or
if you're on youtube you can do the same
as well
cool lots of smiley faces in YouTube
that's looking good any questions any
questions Syed
got it all well done no questions
everybody seems to be clear
clarity's good clarity's good nope
nothing nothing in zoom anyway cool I
will bid you farewell then thanks very
much for coming along that was I hope
that was helpful I think it was as I
said it's good to break down those
questions so that you can understand
them clearly so you can focus on the
audio rather than the question type
excellent I'm sorry that was a short one
but come along again next week for free
members paid members of course you get
webinars every Monday Tuesday Wednesday
and Thursday and I'll see you guys soon
you